blog: Add monthly updates post (#3066)
zaproxy/zaproxy-website: site/content/blog/2025-05-05-zap-updates-april-2025/index.md

type: post
tags:
- blog
- update
date: "2025-05-05"
authors:
- akshath
---

This month was all about small but meaningful improvements.

## Highlights
### ZAP Wins Inaugural DefectDojo Award
We’re proud to announce that ZAP has won the inaugural DefectDojo Open Source Award for being one of the Best Dynamic Application Security Testing (DAST) Tools out there.
This award recognizes ZAP’s contributions to the open-source cybersecurity ecosystem - [read more here](/blog/2025-04-22-zap-wins-inaugural-defectdojo-award-for-open-source/).

### New ZAP Success Story
A new success story featuring Possible Security, a Riga-based cybersecurity firm, was published to the website in April.
They highlight ZAP’s role as a core tool in their web and mobile app penetration tests.
[Read the full story here](/success/possiblesecurity/).

### Authentication Improvements
This month brought several improvements to ZAP’s authentication tooling.
The browser-based recorder received multiple fixes and enhancements, while the team also began discussions around a potential authentication wizard, aimed at streamlining and improving the overall authentication setup experience.

### Spidering Enhancements

> We continued to iterate on both the AJAX spider and client spider, focusing on better handling of dynamic content and improved coverage of modern, JavaScript-driven web applications, especially when authenticated is also involved.

Reviewer: Capital C on client "Client spider" as a name?

## Ongoing Work
### Continued Enhancements to Authentication
Work is steadily progressing to make authentication even more reliable and adaptable.
We're focusing on improving support for complex login sequences, multi-step authentication, and modern SPA frameworks, ensuring ZAP can keep pace with today's evolving web technologies.

### LLM Add-on Pull Request
We're actively reviewing a pull request for a Large Language Model (LLM) add-on.
This experimental feature aims to leverage LLMs within ZAP in a meaningful way.

## Miscellaneous Updates
### PENTEST Tags Added to Scan Rules

> We’ve added PENTEST policy tags to many scan rules, helping users identify rules most relevant to penetration testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We’ve added PENTEST policy tags to all Java active and passive scan rules, helping users identify rules most relevant to penetration testing. (Essentially this is all rules except the Example rules in the alpha add-ons.)
```

Or something like that?

### Windows Binary False Positives Resolved

> ZAP’s Windows binary was being falsely flagged as malicious by a few vendors, including FortiGuard and Ikarus. This issue was resolved after outreach, though Alibaba did not respond and the Chromium team’s reply was unsatisfactory. We're continuing to monitor and engage where needed to minimize disruption for users.

Reviewer: Maybe "disappointing" vs "unsatisfactory"?

[zap-extensions](https://github.com/zaproxy/zap-extensions/pulse/monthly)  
Excluding merges, 7 authors have pushed 90 commits to main and 91 commits to all branches. On main, 549 files have changed and there have been 7,419 additions and 2,127 deletions.

A total of [77 human PRs were merged](https://github.com/search?q=org%3Azaproxy+type%3Apr+-author%3Azapbot+-author%3Aapp%2Fdependabot+sort%3Aupdated-asc+closed%3A2025-04+is%3Amerged&type=pullrequests) on the ZAP repos.

## Released Add-ons - Full Changelog
In April 2025, we released updated versions of 6 add-ons:

##### Advanced SQLInjection Scanner
**v16**  
Changed
- Update minimum ZAP version to 2.16.0.
- Maintenance changes.
- The included active scan rule has been tagged of interest to Penetration Testers.

##### Common Library
**v1.32.0**  
Added
- Add an alert tag for scan rules that are believed to be of interest to Penetration Testers (essentially everything except the Example rules).

##### Linux WebDrivers
**v137**  
Changed
- Update ChromeDriver to 136.0.7103.49.

> **v136**  
> Changed
> - Update ChromeDriver to 135.0.7049.114.
> 
> **v135**  
> Changed
> - Update ChromeDriver to 135.0.7049.97.
> 
> **v134**  
> Changed
> - Update ChromeDriver to 135.0.7049.95.
> 
> **v133**  
> Changed
> - Update ChromeDriver to 135.0.7049.84.
> 
> **v132**  
> Changed
> - Update ChromeDriver to 135.0.7049.42.

Reviewer: Could we roll these up somehow when there's nothing terribly exciting to read/see?
Maybe:

```suggestion

<details>
<summary>v132 .. v136</summary>

**v136**  
Changed
- Update ChromeDriver to 135.0.7049.114.

**v135**  
Changed
- Update ChromeDriver to 135.0.7049.97.

**v134**  
Changed
- Update ChromeDriver to 135.0.7049.95.

**v133**  
Changed
- Update ChromeDriver to 135.0.7049.84.

**v132**  
Changed
- Update ChromeDriver to 135.0.7049.42.

</details>
```

Reviewer 2: Hugo doesn't render raw HTML by default, see https://discourse.gohugo.io/t/raw-html-getting-omitted-in-0-60-0/22032

type: post
tags:
- blog
- update
date: "2025-05-05"
authors:
- akshath
---

This month was all about small but meaningful improvements.

## Highlights
### ZAP Wins Inaugural DefectDojo Award
We’re proud to announce that ZAP has won the inaugural DefectDojo Open Source Award for being one of the Best Dynamic Application Security Testing (DAST) Tools out there.
This award recognizes ZAP’s contributions to the open-source cybersecurity ecosystem - [read more here](/blog/2025-04-22-zap-wins-inaugural-defectdojo-award-for-open-source/).

### New ZAP Success Story
A new success story featuring Possible Security, a Riga-based cybersecurity firm, was published to the website in April.
They highlight ZAP’s role as a core tool in their web and mobile app penetration tests.
[Read the full story here](/success/possiblesecurity/).

### Authentication Improvements
This month brought several improvements to ZAP’s authentication tooling.
The browser-based recorder received multiple fixes and enhancements, while the team also began discussions around a potential authentication wizard, aimed at streamlining and improving the overall authentication setup experience.

### Spidering Enhancements

> We continued to iterate on both the AJAX spider and Client spider, focusing on better handling of dynamic content and improved coverage of modern, JavaScript-driven web applications, especially when authenticated is also involved.

Reviewer 3: authenticated -> authentication?
